# Monitoring with CloudWatch metrics

## Observability in the AWS Cloud

### Three pillars of Observability

1. **Monitoring**
   - is the continuous observation and collection of data from various components and resources within a cloud-based infrastructure.
   - can reveal applications that are not functioning properly.
2. **Tracing**
   - tracks and analyzes the flow of requests, transactions, or data across different components of a cloud-based system.
   - can detect root cause quickly and efficiently.
   - captures and analyzes the flow of information as it moves through various services (AWS X-Ray)
3. **Logging**
   - The recording and storing of information on events, activities, and transactions that occur in a cloud computing environment (AWS CloudWatch, AWS CloudTrail).

## CloudWatch Technical Concepts

#### Metrics
Time-ordered series of numerical data that stores infrastructure, application, or customer satisfaction data.

#### Dashboards
Helps visualize data from metrics and logs in a single place

#### Alarms
  - Use to take action when metric data reaches a threshold.
  - A threshold can be static or based on anomaly detection model that detect unexpected behavior based on past data. 

#### Logs
Series of messages sent by an application or service that contain more in-depth and contextualized data than metrics
 
#### Agents
  - Collect additional metrics unavailable to the hypervisor by installing the CloudWatch agent on the server.
  - Install the agent on EC2 instances, on-premise servers, or servers running either Linux or Windows.

#### Traces
Collects data generated by a single request. That request is typically an HTTP GET or POST request traveling through a load balancer, reaching application code, and generating downstream calls to other AWS services or external web APIs.

#### Synthetics and Canaries
- Use CloudWatch Synthetics to create canaries.
- Canaries monitor URLs, REST APIs, and website content through configurable scripts that follow the same routes and perform the same actions as a customer.

#### Metrics Insights and Metric Math
- Search and aggregate metric data by using **Metric Insights** or **Metric Math**.
- **Metric Insights** is a SQL-based query language used to query metrics at scale.
- **Metric Math** 
  - contains search and math functions to query and analyze large amounts of data over a short period of time.
  - supports a variety of mathematical functions, such as MAX, MIN, AVG, or STDEV to support analysis.
  - Also includes IF statements, arithmetic, comparison, and logical operators.

#### Logs Insights
- Search ang aggregate logs by using **CloudWatch Logs Insights** query language.
- Visualize results on a CloudWatch dashboard as a data table or by using various chart types.
